# Requesting an AWS Account at LBNL

This document outlines the process for LBNL users to request and access an Amazon Web Services (AWS) account.

**Important:** LBNL users cannot self-register AWS accounts using their LBL identity. All AWS account requests must be submitted through the Science IT cloud team.

## Prerequisites
* You must be a LBNL staff member to get a LBNL AWS account.  Interns and external collaborators are not eligible for an AWS account through LBNL, however a LBNL staff member can be the point of contact and can provide access to an AWS account through IAM logins to interns and external collaborators

## Requesting an AWS Account

1.  **Email the Science IT Cloud Team:**
    * Send an email to `scienceit@lbl.gov` requesting an AWS account.
2.  **Provide Necessary Information:**
    * In your email, include the following information:
        * Indicate if you or someone else will be the "owner" and contact for the account.  This information is needed by both the LBNL cloud team and Cybersecurity.
        * A Project ID for recharges.
3.  **Account Creation:**
    * The Science IT cloud team will setup a time to meet with the account owner to create and configure the AWS account.  
    * Once the account is created, the setup and enabling of MFA is required before the account can be used.

## Enabling Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

After your AWS account is created, at that time you **must** enable Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) to access and use any AWS services and resources in the account. This is a security requirement for all LBNL AWS accounts.

For MFA, you can use a physical hardware token, an Authenticator app, or a Passkey.

1.  **Log in to the AWS Management Console:**
    * Use the credentials provided by the Science IT cloud team to log in to the AWS Management Console: [aws.amazon.com/console](https://aws.amazon.com/console).
2.  **Navigate to Security Credentials:**
    * Select the drop down indicated by the account name in the upper right corner of the page.
    * Click the "Security credentials" tab.
5.  **Assign MFA device:**
    * In the "Multi-factor authentication (MFA)" section, click "Assign MFA device".
6.  **Choose MFA device type - Authenticator app option:**
    * Select "Virtual MFA device" and click "Continue".
7.  **Install an Authenticator App:**
    * You will need to install an authenticator app on your smartphone or computer. Popular options include:
        * Google Authenticator
        * Authy
        * Microsoft Authenticator
    * Scan the QR code displayed on the AWS screen with your authenticator app, or manually enter the secret key.
8.  **Enter MFA Codes:**
    * Enter the two consecutive MFA codes generated by your authenticator app into the AWS console and click "Assign MFA".
9.  **Cleanup:**
    * You will need to log out of the account, and then log back in using MFA in order for AWS services and resources to become available.

## Important Notes

* **Account Management:** The Science IT cloud team manages all LBNL AWS accounts.
* **Security:** MFA is mandatory for the root user on all LBNL AWS accounts.
* **Support:** For any questions or assistance, contact the Science IT cloud team at `scienceit@lbl.gov`.
